welcome to lesson 13 of my note reading
crash course in this lesson we're not
going to learn any new notes but we're
going to take some time to strengthen
the coordination in our left hand we've
learned to play a right hand c
pentascale beginning on the note c and
now we're going to learn to play a left
hand pentascale beginning on the note C
Penta is the prefix for the number 5 and
the scale or series of notes has five
notes in it so we're going to begin on C
G those five notes will make up the
pentascale that we're going to play for
this exercise so beginning on C we're
going to march up the notes and then
we're going to march back down them
again so let's turn our attention to the
written music for less than 13 and
keeping a steady beat let's play along
together ready go C space space space
space hold try
all right let's get special attention to
those last two measures of the exercise
where we're playing see space space
space space so all of these notes are a
skip away from each other and we can
tell that they are because the line
notes are missing and we're not playing
the line notes so this is called a triad
when we play it together and a triad is
just a series of three notes that skip
up and you can hear the word try there
that's the prefix for the number three
the pentascale used all five notes the
triad only uses three of those notes so
at the end again we have C G means C and
then all three that's a little tricky
and you might have to practice an extra
but work on this until you can play it
steadily and without hesitation I also
encourage you to please to recopy these
notes onto your blank staff either on
this worksheet or on your own paper this
really does help reinforce your learning